60 tack annotation (#74)
Virtual-Viking-Longship/Ship-Annotations: annotations/tack.md

> **_tack_** (English); _Wende_ (German)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**_tack_** (English); _hals_ (Danish); _Wende_ (German)
```

> _**hals** m., pl. halsar_ (Old Norse) [citations: [prose](https://onp.ku.dk/onp/onp.php?o30985)/[poetry](https://onp.ku.dk/onp/onp.php?o30985)]  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_**hals** m., pl. halsar_ (Old Norse) [citations: [prose](https://onp.ku.dk/onp/onp.php?o30985)/[poetry](https://lexiconpoeticum.org/m.php?p=lemma&i=31494)]  
```

>   The lowest corner of the front of the sail which is secured to the hull when changing direction (tacking) or when the wind is coming from behind the ship at a significant angle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The lowest corner of the front of the sail which is secured to the hull when changing direction (tacking) in order to sail into the wind. On a viking ship, the tack thus changes from one corner of the square sail to the other as the ship tacks back and forth to move upwind.
```

<div align="center">
  
  ![tack from Skuldelev 1](../images/Tack.png)  
  Tack position on Viking sail
  
</div>
  

>   The tack was an important part of the Viking sail to which ropes were attached to manuever the ship and control the sail in harsh wind conditions. It is known that the tack was often fastened to holes on the side of the hull either by clamps or belaying pins (Bischoff 8).   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Both the lower corners of square sails and the lines attached to them are called sheets (ON _skaut_) and used to maneuver the ship and control the sail in variable wind conditions, with one or the other becoming the tack when in the forward position (Renouf; OED). The tack on Viking ships was often fastened to holes on the side of the hull either by clamps or belaying pins, and the location of these holes on the Skuldelev finds has been used to calculate the width of Viking sails (Bischoff 8).   
```
